I can't
mr. president and mrs. Reagan I'm
delighted to say on behalf of the people
of the United States of America welcome
home and well done
everyone in America watch your historic
trip and hope for the best and pulled
for you
and now it's over and we can all say
that you've made a historic contribution
to peace in the world on arms control
mrs. Thatcher probably put it best when
she said that you have bravely gone
forward in spite of the voices of denial
and doubt you showed the only way to
succeed is by retaining your resolve and
speaking with conviction as for the
latter I suspect you know mr. president
that you caught a little flak for
bringing up the issue of human rights so
forcefully right there in the heart of
the Soviet system but most Americans
but most Americans felt as I did we have
a tradition of freedom in a history of
free speech and what's wrong with
telling the other guy how you feel
the fact is you made us proud this week
an American president strode the hard
ground of Red Square and reminded the
world through the sureness of his step
and the lilt of his words what a bracing
thing freedom is but a moving and
bracing thing so welcome back mr.
president it's good to see you god bless
you and Nancy
but thank you all very much as as some
of you may have heard mr. Gorbachev and
I've been trading Russian proverbs this
week but you know flying back across the
Atlantic today it was an American saying
that kept running through my mind
believe me as far as Nancy and I are
concerned there's no place like home
we we want to thank all of you for
coming out today we are grateful for
your enthusiasm and for the warmth of
your welcome and take it from me all
this red white and blue scenery hits
these two weary travelers right where we
live
if I might paraphrase George M cohan
some may call it a flame flag waving but
right now I can't think of a better flag
to wave we're a little tired but we're
exhilarated at what has happened
exhilarated too at the thought of the
future and what may lie ahead for the
young people of America and all of the
world the events of this weekend Moscow
were momentous not conclusive perhaps
but momentous and believe me right now
momentous will do just fine you know
it's occurred to me that time does have
a way of sorting things out for many
years now Americans have seen the danger
of war and pleaded the cause of peace
and other Americans have seen the danger
of totalitarianism and pleaded the cause
of freedom so I was just thinking why
don't we just agree today on something
that maybe we should have been saying to
each other all along that we're all
Americans and that we all have one and
the same burning cause in our hearts the
cause of world peace and the cause of
world freedom
peace peace and freedom are what this
trip was about and we saw some real
progress in several areas in Moscow on
human rights on regional conflicts on
Greater contacts between the people of
the Soviet Union and the United States
we exchanged the documents that put into
force and historic treaty that
eliminates for the first time an entire
class of US and Soviet nuclear weapons
and establishes real breakthroughs in
verification procedures and we made
tangible progress toward an even more
historic treaty on strategic weapons yes
a 50 percent of reduction in nuclear
weapons all of this was good and
promising for the future but there's
something else I want to tell you about
I wish you could have seen the faces we
saw in the Soviet Union as I said to the
young people at Moscow State University
it was hard really to tell them apart
from any other group of students in our
country or anywhere else in the world
and as I told mr. Gorbachev there were
also the faces young and old we saw on
the streets of Moscow at first more than
anything else they were curious faces
but as time went on the smiles began and
then the waves and I don't have to tell
you Nancy and I smiled back and waved
just as hard
the
the truth came home to us once again it
isn't people but governments that make
war and it isn't people but governments
that erect barriers that keep us apart
much is happening in the Soviet Union we
hope and pray that the signs of change
continue there our pledge mr. Gorbachev
and I is to work to continue building a
better understanding between our two
countries but let's remember too that
just as our forward strategy of peace
and freedom anticipated positive changes
it remains ready to take us over any
bumps in the road and that's because our
strategy is based on faith in the
eventual triumph of human freedom that
faith in freedom that abiding belief in
what the unfettered human spirit can
accomplish defines us as a people and a
nation and you know I've been told that
even a few veteran journalists said a
chill went through them this week at a
site they never thought they would see
in their lifetime an American president
there in the heart of Moscow talking
about economic political and individual
freedoms to the future leaders of the
Soviet Union explaining that freedom
makes a difference and explaining how
freedom works talking to about the
possibility of a new age of prosperity
and peace we're old antagonisms between
nations can someday be put behind us a
new age that can be ours if only we'll
reach out to it ladies and gentlemen all
across our country during these weeks of
spring it's graduation time and I hope
our young graduates know what a sudden
startling future may now be before them
a future brought about by a
technological and information revolution
based on a growing understanding of the
nexus between economic growth and
creative freedom but I hope too that
young Americans and all Americans will
always remember that this revolution is
only the continuation of a revolution
begun two centuries ago a revolution of
hope a hope that some day a new land
might become a place where freedom's
light would be conforth that faith in
freedom that belief in the inany
alienable rights of man begun in
carpenters Hall in Philadelphia traveled
last week to the Lenin Hills in Moscow
it was the selflessness of so many
Americans that brought it their
selflessness by Americans for over two
centuries but especially by those
Americans who fought what has truly been
called the Twilight Struggle of the
post-war years a struggle where national
interest was not always clearly defined
or adversaries easily identified or
sacrifice fully appreciated now more
than ever we must continue the judgment
of future generations will be harsh upon
us if after so much sacrifice and now at
the hour of hope we falter or fail let
us resolve to continue one nation one
people united in our love of peace and
freedom determined to keep our defenses
strong to stand with those who struggle
for freedom across the world to keep
America a shining city a light unto the
nations and let us remember too that
there's work remaining here at home that
whatever the accomplishments of America
we must never be prideful toward others
we have much to learn from peoples of
foreign lands and other cultures nor
should we ever grow content let us never
rest until every American of every race
or background knows the full blessing of
liberty until justice for all is truly
justice for all
and most of all let us remember that
being an American means remembering
another loyalty a loyalty as the him
puts it to another country I have heard
of a place whose King is never seen and
whose armies cannot be counted and yet
if patriotism is not the only thing it
is one of the best things and we can be
grateful to God that we have seen such a
rebirth of it here in this country
and you know it's true frequently when
such moments happen in the nation's
history there's a popular saying or song
that speaks for that time and just maybe
this verse sounds familiar to you if
tomorrow all the things were gone I'd
worked for all my life and I had to
start again with just my children and my
wife I'd thank my lucky stars to be
living here today because the flag still
stands for freedom and they can't take
that away
Nancy and I have full hearts today we're
grateful to all of you one to the
American people
grateful for the chance to serve
grateful for all the support and warmth
that you've given us over the years and
you know what else we think our friend
Lee Greenwood has it just right all our
days and especially today there ain't no
doubt we love this land god bless the
USA